It is never easy to do something.
You have just learned for the very first time.
If you haven't tried it, I'm going to recommend that you pause this video and give it your best shot
before continuing.
If you manage to solve it, congratulations.
And if you tried but you didn't manage to finish it, that's fine.
Congratulations.
Anyways, it's normal to not be able to do something on the first try.
So let's go over to Pie Charm so that you can see our solution and say, But why didn't I think of that
before?
See you there.
And to start creating the solution to our project, I have to create two classes because the instructions
asked for two classes, one inheriting the other.
So the first one is going to be person, which is going to be the base class or the parent class, which
will contain some attributes that will be then transferred to the client.
So we define it here with the init method self and make people have a first name and a last name.
Then we enter it to make sure that the name of the person is always the same as the name that is passed
when the object is instantiated and the same with the last name, which should be the same as the last
name that is assigned.
When instantiating the object, we have the class person and now we are going to create the class client
which inherits from person, although it would not be necessary to do it this way for this program,
the idea is that you can apply the inheritance.
So we define here another method in it that allows us to add, in addition to what the previous one
had, the account number and the balance.
And remember that one way to do it, in order not to redefine everything that was done previously,
is to add first name, last name, and the new attributes that are account, number and balance.
Balance, actually, as all the accounts will start from zero, does not need to be an attribute that
should be passed to the constructor.
So here we're going to give it a value that is equal to zero because our accounts are always going to
start empty.
So as I don't want to redefine name and last name, I call super and create the init method with name
and last name and they are now considered inherited from the previous one.
We still have to make self account number be equal to the account number that we pass it to.
And make self balance be equal to balance that we passed to it, which is passed with a value of zero.
So we also have the attributes of the client class and we said that we're also going to add some methods
to this class.
First, a string method or STR that will allow us to show through this special method what our account
contains when someone wants to print our client.
Then we put to death Esther.
And it brings us to self.
It needs no other attributes.
And here we add return, not a print, so as to get back a string literal that says something like client
colon and the first and last name through self name.
So we leave a space and type in self last name and we can do a line break to make for everything to
be more organized.
So here it says account balance and we include the account number with self dot account number colon
equal to the currency sign and are called to whatever it is in the balance, which is going to be zero
at the beginning.
This is the STR method that is going to show this content to any method that asks our object client
to be printed.
So we also want to methods which are two very important methods, the deposit method and the withdrawal
method.
So we're going to create the first one as deposit.
This method will ask self, of course.
And the amount deposit.
This is the amount to be deposited.
Without this value, you would not be able to do any operations.
So once this method has been called and passed and amount to deposit, we can say that self point balance.
I mean the balance of this instance plus equals the amount passed as deposit.
And we can print something that says deposit accepted.
It is not necessary to put there the amount of the balance because the client will see it later when
printed.
So we will call this method to be able to show the result of each operation.
And finally we need the withdrawal function that will have self and amount withdrawal so we can do almost
the same thing.
Self balance.
Oh, no.
Here we have a problem.
We cannot withdraw at once.
First, we have to check if the amount that the client wants to withdraw exists in the balance.
Because if there is 100 left in the balance and the customer needs 500.
Our banks should not let us do this.
It would be a financial disaster.
So we have to verify if self balance is higher than or equal to the amount that the customer wants to
withdraw.
Colon If that's so, we're going to say that self balance is now less equal to the withdrawal amount.
That will modify our result.
And we can make a printout that says something like withdrawal done.
And in the case that this is not possible because the amount is not large enough.
We put in else that prints to let the client know.
Insufficient funds.
That horrible phrase that you may have received at an ATM.
Well, so far we have our classes and now we want to do is a function that is going to be separate from
these classes.
The function create client, which is the one we will call to instantiate a new client when executing
the program, and it does not need to receive parameters.
Here we create the three variables that we need to build our person with the customer constructor.
Then we say first name c t for customer, which should be equal to an input entered by the user, which
is enter your name, colon and space, then a last name.
C t that has to be equal to the input.
Enter your last name, colon and space.
So we still require an account number which can be equal to an input that asks the customer to enter
your account number, colon and space.
So we have three values.
We need to create a customer because these are the three elements it asks for up here.
We don't need to enter the balance because it is already defined as zero, and now we're going to create
a variable which can be client one and my client or whatever you want that will be equal to an instance
of client and the three values that it asks here.
That's our name.
Last name and account number are simply going to be first name, C, T, last name, seat and account
number, which are the three variables that we have created in this same function.
So we're almost done.
And for when I finish this function, I will need it to return to the code, the data that corresponds
to customer.
So I type return client one and now that function is completed.
So let's create the function start, which is the one that executes the code, because until now, if
we execute this, nothing will happen because all we have done is to create the class, then another
one, then a function, and nothing is executable yet.
So the start function doesn't need parameters.
The first thing this function will need to do is call the function, create client.
But remember that we'll return a customer that we need to store in a variable.
So I name it my customer.
This is then what start is going to perform when executed.
Ask the user all this information and create the customer which will be passed to the variable.
My customer, the one that operates inside the start function the follow me.
So now we print my customer and what is going to happen when my customer is printed?
What we have in the STR method here will be shown their first and last name and the account balance.
So it is good for the customer to see a kind of summary once they've entered their data.
So now we enter the menu that gives the user the possibility of depositing, withdrawing or exiting
the code.
As this menu is going to have three options and we need those options to be repeat until the client
decides to exit.
So we're going to first create an option that is incorrect value, like zero in order to create the
while loop.
We have already done this many times that has the condition that if the option is different to a for
exit, the options will be displayed.
So we do it this way because we know that if we start the program wrong, the program then enters the
loop at least once.
So what are we going to print here?
We say choose colon space deposit, and in parentheses we show the user that they have to press.
DD They can also choose withdrawal or w in brackets.
Or the user can choose exit, which would be the letter E in brackets.
So as I told you in the instructions, we won't devote time to checking if the user entered an incorrect
number or letter all lowercase instead of uppercase.
Here we assume that the user did everything right so that we don't pay too much attention to what you
already know.
If you want to add it to your code, go ahead.
I will go on with the essential code.
Well, the client made that choice, and now we are going to give him an option to store that choice
with an input.
And in that way, we are able to see whether we will continue entering the loop or not.
Because if you exit, this will stop.
But the other options have to call a deposit or a withdrawal.
Then we check if the option the client has chosen is equal to D, which stands for deposit.
Now we will make the debt amount.
A name that stands for deposit.
Amount will be the variable that contains an integer of what the user enters, which is going to be
an input that asks for deposit amount.
In this way, the client will choose an amount that will be transformed into an input and which will
be loaded in a variable debt amount.
Why?
So that we can call my customer deposit, which is the method we have created and which our client instance
has.
The deposit method needs the debt amount variable and one we just created to be passed.
We've already created the execution of this method deposit.
This is so if the user chooses DD.
But what if they chose W?
Then we put elif to say that if the choice has been equal to W, in that case we will set a width,
amount or withdrawal amount which should be equal to an integer of an input where the user is asked
withdrawal amount, colon space.
And once they do this we will execute my customer point withdrawal.
And it also requires us to pass the amount to withdraw, which is in the variable width amount that
we just created.
So these are the only two options that the user can give to us, because if they press a, we will exit
the loop and we will not be able to enter these two options.
And once the user chooses D or W, we're going to print my customer.
What for?
To show us that there is a summary of the first and last name and of how the balance of the account
is after carrying out any of these two operations.
So then we exit the while loop and inside the start function we will greet our client who has decided
to leave with a thank you for using Python bank, wallet bank.
I would definitely deposit my money there.
So we have our code or most of it, but we still need a line.
And what is it?
Let's see if you can guess.
Well, if I execute this, nothing happens because there is no executable line.
It has to call.
Start for everything to happen.
So let's check to see if we've done it right.
So we execute.
Enter your name.
My name is Freddie.
My last name is Gary.
My account number is 00001, and it shows me all the information and options.
I can't withdraw any money because my account is empty.
So let's choose deposit and it asks me for an amount to deposit.
I want to deposit 500.
It says deposit accepted shows.
My personal information tells me my balance and shows me my options.
So now I want to withdraw.
So I put W and I'm going to choose 400.
So my balance is now 100.
Everything seems to work perfectly.
But suppose I want to withdraw again.
And though I only have 100 left, I try to withdraw 300.
It tells me insufficient funds and shows me again the balance and the options.
So let's choose a this time.
It tells me that the balance once again and thank you for using banco python and we get out of the code
which has worked perfectly.
So in this exercise we worked with inheritance which was not so necessary because we could have done
all this with the classic customer without it inheriting from person.
But we wanted to play with inheritance.
So we have also integrated the use of functions with what we've learned about object oriented programming.
And most importantly, our object had attributes of its own and inherited ones as well, and it also
had methods in which it modified special methods, which in all classes we create have.
So I think it has been a very rewarding day and I hope your bank account, once you start working as
a python developer, will return much more than zero.
So we're done for the day.
So let's have a break and we'll see you in the next lesson after a good sleep.
See you in the next lesson.